# Whale-optimizer-for-Partitoned-HWSN
The problem of network partition in ad-hoc networks received attention in the recent years. Many solutions have been proposed such as algorithms based, heuristics based, approximations based and meta-heuristic based to place additional relay nodes in partitioned heterogeneous wireless sensor networks to resume its operation. However, placing additional relay nodes in the partitioned network is shown an NP-Hard problem, because locations for relay node placements are not known in advance. Meta-heuristics are proven best-suited solutions to solve such kind of NP-Hard problem as well as optimization problem due to their problem independent and stochastic nature. In this research paper, we have introduced a network partition problem and developed a new nature inspired solution called Whale Optimizer to Repair Partitioned Heterogeneous wireless sensor networks (WORPH) based on the social behaviour of whales in the nature. In the proposed solution, a whale tries to find the optimal locations for attacking its prey. We have mimicked the said behaviour of whales in our proposed solution while considering the initial locations of deployed RNs inside disjoint partitions. The observed optimal positions are being used to find the optimal locations for deploying new RNs in such a way that partitioned network is restored in an optimal way. The simulation results are observed and compared with state-of-the-art approaches to prove the effectiveness of our proposed solution.


Please Cite it if you are using this code for your research.
